TEST esinput content against 8.x (#1828)
elastic/logstash-docs: docs/plugins/inputs/elasticsearch.asciidoc

TIP: Set the `target` option to avoid potential schema conflicts.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-failure-handling"]
==== Failure handling

When this input plugin cannot create a structured `Event` from a hit result, it will instead create an `Event` that is tagged with `_elasticsearch_input_failure` whose `[event][original]` is a JSON-encoded string representation of the entire hit.

Common causes are:

 - When the hit result contains top-level fields that are {logstash-ref}/processing.html#reserved-fields[reserved in Logstash] but do not have the expected shape. Use the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-target>> directive to avoid conflicts with the top-level namespace.
 - When <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-docinfo>> is enabled and the docinfo fields cannot be merged into the hit result. Combine <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-target>> and <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-docinfo_target>> to avoid conflict.

> [id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-cursor"]
> ==== Tracking a field's value across runs
> 
> NOTE: experimental:[] `tracking_field` and related settings are experimental and subject to change in the future
> 
> It is sometimes desirable to track the value of a particular field between two jobs:
> * avoid re-processing the entire result set of a long query after an unplanned restart
> * only grab new data from an index instead of processing the entire set on each job
> 
> For this, the Elasticsearch input plugin provides the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking_field>> and <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking_field_seed>> options.
> When <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking_field>> is set, the plugin will record the value of that field for the last document retrieved in a run into
> a file (location defaults to <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-last_run_metadata_path>>).
> 
> The user can then inject this value in the query using the placeholder `:last_value`. The value will be injected into the query
> before execution, and the updated after the query completes if new data was found.
> 
> This feature works best when:
> 
> . the query sorts by the tracking field;
> . the timestamp field is added by {es};
> . the field type has enough resolution so that two events are unlikely to have the same value.
> 
> It is recommended to use a tracking field whose type is https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/date_nanos.html[date nanoseconds].
> If the tracking field is of this data type, an extra placeholder called `:present` can be used to inject the nano-second based value of "now-30s".
> This placeholder is useful as the right-hand side of a range filter, allowing the collection of
> new data but leaving partially-searcheable bulk request data to the next scheduled job.

Author: ```suggestion
[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-cursor"]
==== Tracking a field's value across runs

NOTE: experimental:[] `tracking_field` and related settings are experimental and subject to change in the future

.Technical Preview: Tracking a field's value
****
The feature that allows tracking a field's value across runs is in _Technical Preview_.
Configuration options and implementation details are subject to change in minor releases without being preceded by deprecation warnings.
****

Some uses cases require tracking the value of a particular field between two jobs.
Examples include:

* avoiding the need to re-process the entire result set of a long query after an unplanned restart
* grabbing only new data from an index instead of processing the entire set on each job.

The Elasticsearch input plugin provides the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking_field>> and <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking_field_seed>> options.
When <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking_field>> is set, the plugin records the value of that field for the last document retrieved in a run into
a file. 
(The file location defaults to <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-last_run_metadata_path>>).

You can then inject this value in the query using the placeholder `:last_value`. 
The value will be injected into the query before execution, and then updated after the query completes if new data was found.

This feature works best when:

* the query sorts by the tracking field,
* the timestamp field is added by {es}, and
* the field type has enough resolution so that two events are unlikely to have the same value.

Consider using a tracking field whose type is https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/date_nanos.html[date nanoseconds].
If the tracking field is of this data type, you can use an extra placeholder called `:present` to inject the nano-second based value of "now-30s".
This placeholder is useful as the right-hand side of a range filter, allowing the collection of
new data but leaving partially-searchable bulk request data to the next scheduled job.
```

When <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking_field>> is set, the plugin records the value of that field for the last document retrieved in a run into
a file. 
(The file location defaults to <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-last_run_metadata_path>>.)

You can then inject this value in the query using the placeholder `:last_value`. 
The value will be injected into the query before execution, and then updated after the query completes if new data was found.

This feature works best when:

* the query sorts by the tracking field,
* the timestamp field is added by {es}, and
* the field type has enough resolution so that two events are unlikely to have the same value.

Consider using a tracking field whose type is https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/date_nanos.html[date nanoseconds].
If the tracking field is of this data type, you can use an extra placeholder called `:present` to inject the nano-second based value of "now-30s".
This placeholder is useful as the right-hand side of a range filter, allowing the collection of
new data but leaving partially-searchable bulk request data to the next scheduled job.

> id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking-sample"]

Author: ```suggestion
[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tracking-sample"]
```
